Anthony, welcome back to Talk Python To Me again.
Again, so awesome to have you back.
Yeah, great to be here.
Good to catch up.
Good to have you on the show.
I know we've got a really interesting topic to talk about.
Performance, load testing.
How do you know if your website or your API is going to work when you ship it to the world?
in a real world way, not just how many requests per second can it take,
but a real use case, as I know.
You're going to tell us all about, so that's going to be awesome.
Before we do, just a quick introduction to who you are
and maybe for most 98% of the world who knows you,
what have you been up to?
Yeah, so I am the Python advocacy lead at Microsoft.
I do a bunch of open source work,
maintain some projects and stuff like that.
Wrote a book on Python, the Python compiler called CPython Internals.
But these days, I'm mostly known as the person that created VS Code Pets.
And that's, which was a bit of fun,
but has become the most popular piece of software I've ever written.
So that's been interesting.
It's now got over a million active users.
I'm not sure.
- Remember what you create,
you might get known for it, you know?
- Yeah, I know.
Yeah, it's interesting when you go to conferences
and stuff now and I'm like,
oh, I work on this project and this project,
and then you'd mention the pets thing
and they're like, oh, you're the pets person.
Oh, you're the developer of the...
- Oh my God.
You spent a year writing a deep book
on the internals of CPython and it's runtime.
I don't know who you are,
but this pets thing is killer, man.
- Yeah, there's a cat that runs around in VS Code,
so that's cool.
Can it be a dog as well?
What kind of pets can we have?
Oh, there's everything.
Yeah, it can be a dog.
There's like chickens and turtles and snakes and everything you can think of.
It's a pretty active repository as well.
We get a lot of feature requests for new shades of fur and new pets and new
behaviors and stuff like that.
So yeah, that's incredible.
Yeah.
If you haven't checked it out, then check out the VS Code Pets extension for VS Code.
i installed it for a while i had to uninstall it it was it was too much yeah i think if you're
you're if you're one of those people that likes having distractions then it's helpful if you find
it hard to have a little thing running around whilst you're trying to code um then it might be
a bit much it's a little bit like power mode like oh yeah are you familiar with the power mode where
I used the one in JetBrains.
Yeah, I used the power mode for JetBrains when that was around.
It was pretty cool.
Yeah, if you want maximum distraction for your work.
Yeah, it reminds me of the Unreal Tournament, the sort of power modes for that.
That's right.
That's awesome.
All right.
Well, let's start off with some stories.
I think everyone has a sense of like, why do you want your website or your API or your microservice thing of API and website, however you combine these things to work well and understand.
But it's always fun to share some stories.
Yeah.
So we want to talk about load testing.
and I think a fun thing to do with low testing
is to reflect on times where people haven't done it the right way
and it's caused a really public disaster.
But the analogy that I use is the halftime problem,
which I'm English and so this is mostly a soccer thing.
But we've got really big soccer games
And it would be the same, I guess, with the Super Bowl.
Yeah, I was just thinking American Super Bowl football.
Yeah, but the difference is that in soccer,
at 45 minutes, you've got a 15-minute break.
Yes.
Whereas in the Super Bowl, every 15 minutes,
you've got a 15-minute break.
Well, and it's loaded with commercials.
So you've got like every five minutes,
there's like, oh, here's two more commercial breaks.
Where soccer is a flowing game.
There's like no break until halftime, right?
Yeah, exactly.
That's the difference, I think.
So what happens with a big game, so if it's like a FA Cup final or like a, you know, like a Champions League final or something,
then you basically have 100 million people all stop watching the TV at the same time for 15 minutes, go to the kitchen, turn on the kettle, make a cup of tea, go to the bathroom.
And so the electricity providers actually have to plan for this.
because a kettle uses like a couple of kilowatts of energy especially in the UK where it's uh 240.
yeah exactly yeah um and all of a sudden you've got like tens of millions of people all switching
on their two kilowatt kettles at the same time so the electricity providers basically have to plan
around the soccer games um so that they get this massive spike in load in their grid
So they actually do look at the sports schedules to basically plan around this, especially if there's something like a World Cup or something like that.
And this is kind of like a low testing thing where you kind of.
on the system is going to be and is it a spike in traffic or is it like distributed
and occasions where it's gone a bit wrong um so here in australia we had a census uh maybe eight
years ago um and normally it's a paper census you fill in the form say who you are what you do
but this time they wanted to do it online as well and they really encouraged people to use the online
version and they set up the system set up the website and said okay everyone can fill in the
census there's only 20 something million people in Australia it's not a very big population
but on the last night before the census was due it crashed because everybody logged on at the
last minute and tried to fill it in and they hadn't tested it properly and it just wasn't ready for
the load um and in the post-mortem they said oh we did the load testing and we test we tested it
and it seemed fine but we expected everybody to fill in the census over the six months they had
to do it um we didn't think that people would leave it to the last minute which is more like
well what did you expect to happen this is just human nature that you're going to put it off
until the last possible moment.
Yeah, I can only see two spikes,
a small spike at the beginning and a huge spike at the end
and like nothing in the middle.
Yeah, exactly.
So they had to kind of delay the deadline
and then provision new infrastructure and stuff like that.
So yeah, it was interesting,
but it kind of highlighted
how you need to think about load testing.
Yeah, that's nuts.
And I guess the mode before, the style before,
was kind of a distributed queuing system using paper envelopes
where the queuing literally was physical.
And then it would be processed at the rate at which the system can handle it, right?
Which, you know, however fast you can get them in based on paper.
But then you try to turn it into an interactive system and oh no.
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
You know, I have another example to share.
Like we've seen websites that, you know, fall down like this.
It fell down.
And when something has to be done, I think it's probably really tricky to communicate.
You know, let's say 10 million people tried to fill it out that day and it crashed on them.
Well, how do they know that the deadline's extended and how do they come back, right?
Like there's, it creates this cascading chain of really challenging problems all of a sudden to deal with it.
You know, we had the healthcare Obamacare stuff in the U S where soon as that thing opened, it just completely died.
And for weeks people couldn't get insurance, which was bad, but that's not the story I want to share.
I want to share a different one.
There was this app, this person who was frustrated about, they're an artist, like a photographer, I believe.
And they're frustrated about LLMs and diffusion models, taking everyone's art
and generating new art from it.
And kind of, you know, I guess it's up to people's opinion, whether or not it
counts as stealing or copyright theft or it's fair use or whatever, but this
person wasn't a fan of that.
So they came up with a web app based on serverless that would look at stuff and
say, this is real art.
This is AI generated art.
And it's not exactly the same, but they ended up with a $96,000 Vercel bill.
Because they didn't really take into account how much it's going to cost per request to handle this on their server list.
It was like 20 cents a user and everyone was like, you know, this was right at the height of the LLM boom and all the AI art boom and stuff.
And people just swarmed to it.
That's a different kind of problem, right?
Yeah, that's the cost issue.
Yeah, there are definitely other ones to keep in mind.
And we mentioned like, you know, the census and the Obamacare thing, and you might be listening and thinking, well, you know, my website is not going to get, you know, 15 million people logging in all at the same time.
So like, is this really an issue that I need to handle?
like a few months ago I was doing a load test of a uh an AI app so like a chat app
um and designed the load test and ran it with 10 users uh and it had issues um yeah so like it this
this doesn't need to be a tens of millions of users problem um and the issue that it uncovered
was like oh there's a there's a rate limit on the number of tokens you can send to the LLM and by
default it's a really small number um and if you have 10 people asking questions simultaneously
then that that gets exhausted really quickly um and it just throttles you and then like the app
just says oh rate limit error and you just wouldn't have noticed because if you're a single user
clicking around typing in you know questions or even if you've written some fancy like
you are UI testing or something you're like oh we've tested it and it works great um but you know
you run 10 people using at the same time and that's where you start to notice problems yeah
i've more than once considered putting some kind of llm ai augment you know rag sort of thing
in front of talk python because god at this point eight nine years of full transcripts human
corrected with all sorts of you know pretty highly accurate stuff would be awesome to have people have
conversations about it but i don't know just the workload i can see so many people coming to
and go that's neat i'm going to ask it about my homework it has nothing to do with it just just
using it as like a free ai to just instead of bothering to download something or use chat gbt
i'll just use yours and i'm like uh probably not worth all the trouble yeah you can you can set
them up so that they only answer questions about your own stuff they don't act as a
a fancy front end for chat gpt um yeah we've got plenty of demos that are like that that um
you give it your own internal documents and it only answers questions about those and
and you can set it up so that if it doesn't if it can't figure out a reliable answer it tells you
it says i can't rather than just making something up
yeah that's really nice yeah i forgot how uh closely you guys work with open ai and all that
right yeah yeah yeah i mean the compute in azure to run and train all that stuff is
it's out of control yeah the gpus alone are insane yeah it's you know i talked to mark
rosanovich a bit of a diversion but about some of the hardware and some of the data center stuff and
And it's like, we're going to create distributed GPUs that connect back over fiber to the actual hardware so you can scale your GPUs and CPUs independently.
There's just all kinds of crazy, interesting stuff there.
But that's a bit of a side note.
Bit of a side note.
All right.
So let's talk about basically what do you want to do to design a load test?
It's more than just let me write a loop and see how many requests I can make while true,
use requests and call this endpoint or something, right?
Yeah.
So I guess what I normally highlight with load testing is that the wrong way to start
is to try and work out how many requests per second your server can handle.
That's interesting for throughput, but it's not a good measure of real user traffic.
And the main reason is that every user is unique.
They do different things.
They follow different paths.
They put in different data.
And also, when you're running a benchmark, then it's not waiting between requests.
It's just trying to hammer as much as it can.
so real users pause and read and click and wait and there's normally latency
i can see your mouse moving mike but i can't hear you
sorry so no i can't they so they don't request the same page over and over and over right they
request a blend of pages. Either they go to the homepage, then they do a search and they explore
what they find in the search and they go back and do another search and then they go to checkout or
whatever, right? And as you're pointing out, they don't just hold down control or command R and just
flicker the screen as hard as they can. They're reading and they're interacting. And so
what you're saying is if you really want to say how many actual users, not just kind of a throughput
number but how many people using the app do you possibly expect it could keep working or
right you got to factor all these things in right yeah so you got to factor in the randomness of
where they go what they type in um the weights between each click or each api request um and
then something else that's really important is that most modern applications uh it's not just
the initial HTTP request. It's the, you know, 95 additional requests to all the scripts and the
resources and the AJAX calls and everything like that. So if it's a browser-based application,
then typically, you know, it's not just the initial request, it's everything that happens
after it. And I've definitely seen times where people have done a load test and said, oh yeah,
the website runs great um and then in their app they had like a javascript polar that would like
refresh the data or something every minute um and then they didn't test that and then you get you
know thousands of users who leave the tab in their browser and it's just polling in the background
so you've basically got this continuous stream of traffic um to a special api that does like polling
and they hadn't low tested that and that produced a huge like spike in load and that caused issues
it's like 75 of the workload is the polling yeah yeah exactly what's your browser what's
your browser tab story are you a person that just has tons and tons of tabs open
um i don't know i try and clean them up as much as possible um and have like a couple open maybe
um unless i'm researching something and then when i'm finished i just do
close all tabs um yeah and then start again yeah that's me as well i think there's a there's a
good number of people that just have like 50 tabs open they just leave them and think about what
that does for your website if you've got some kind of timer based deal right you got to consider
those people that have just left it yeah yeah yeah so so you got to take those things into account
i suppose yeah yeah and you did mention that the css and the talked about the ajax but i think also
things like css images javascript files not javascript execution but just getting the files
right some of these frameworks are a couple hundred megs like if you're not somehow distributing that
through a cdn that that could be worth considering as well i think yeah it is definitely and so in
In Python, for example, you've got in Django, there's an extension called white noise.
So in Django, you've got static content.
There is a really easy extension you can install because normally you have to kind of configure static and say, OK, my static files are here.
And then you have to set up Nginx or whichever web server you're doing to serve that static content directly.
So as a bit of a workaround, people often install this white noise extension that basically uses Python as their static server.
So like every time you request a CSS or whatever, Python actually is the thing that reads it from disks and serves it back, which is great for like development.
But like you should never use that in production because Python is not a very good CDN.
So, yeah, that's kind of with load testing, you would just test the endpoint and say, oh, yeah, it works great.
But then you actually run it in a browser.
And if you're using something like white noise, it's actually creating, you know, 10 times, 20 times more load than you expected because it's pulling in all this like CSS and JavaScript and images and stuff like that.
Yeah, it could be out of control.
I ran into an issue with my website where, I don't know, I got tired of being too careful with font awesome fonts.
And I had missed one.
I'm like, I'll just put the whole thing.
I'll just put the whole CSS file in.
I'm sure it'll be fine.
It wasn't fine.
Like the web app is running at like 10% CPU usage and Nginx trying to serve up all the JavaScript is at like 80.
I'm like, what is it doing?
like oh serving up a megabyte size to font stuff every request this is not good yeah um so yeah in
terms of projects that i've worked on in the past um i've worked on low testing some like big
campaigns and stuff like that um particularly around sports events um awesome television uh
back when people used to watch live uh live television instead of streaming at all um
you know they'd have like a murder mystery or something on a big soap opera um and so i'd like
load test the application so that when everyone wants to find out who murdered the vicar's
wife or whatever then um they'd all kind of click on the website at the same time and just trying
to load test it so some of the things i'd seen were trying to make sure you simulate browser
load correctly trying to distribute traffic in a realistic way and then spikes in traffic are
basically a different problem um so the thing we talked about like the half time problem where
you've got everybody turning on the kettle at the same time that's a special type of load test
it's a predictable spike as opposed to just out of the blue spike right yeah that's that one is
predictable which is really nice um and then you get things like seasonal traffic so for a lot of
e-commerce um applications and stuff like that you would expect in the lead up to christmas or in the
black friday sale in the us for example like cyber monday you know you'd expect like a spike in
traffic for those um but it would be distributed over a day or two um so you want to be able to
like properly assess those yeah another spike that i think you and i can both relate to is the
the driver of the day formula one right oh right yeah you've got you've got 10 laps left within
the race everyone now go to this thing and press this button and you have five minutes to do it or
something right like that's gonna that's gonna be a mega spike yeah yeah yeah there can be some big
big loads in traffic um so yeah sudden sudden spikes are really hard to handle because you get
bottlenecks in the network you get bottlenecks in the database you get bottlenecks in the web server
so those are kind of a unique type of problem to to test for um if you're looking more like waves
of traffic so like oh you know traffic would build up during the weekday or the type of application
I have actually gets busier at the weekend or in the evenings.
Then those are kind of the ones where you test ramped traffic.
So all these load testing tools have a ramp up time or ramp configuration where certain
locust, for example, you say, how many concurrent users do you want to get to?
So let's say that's like a thousand or something.
And then how much do you want to ramp up?
And you generally should always use a ramp because, you know, if you've got a thousand users, unless you've put them all in a room and said, okay, everybody click on the button at the same time.
Like that's not going to happen.
People, people log in gradually over a period of time.
And if you don't use ramping and load testing tools, you actually create, you kind of end up simulating stuff that's not realistic.
So you'd see like a massive spike in response times as the application gets backed up.
But if it's not really realistic that you'd get those types of spikes, then don't simulate
it that way.
Yeah, we're going to talk about it in a little bit, but there's a lot of different layers
of caching as well.
And if the app has just come to life, many of those layers of caching are not set up
and warmed up.
So that's a big deal.
And it could be as simple as the web app parsing the Jinja or Chameleon or Django template, right?
That's the very first time that can be slow.
But then if you set it up right in production, it will not parse at the second, third, and fourth request, right?
Yeah, exactly.
And so if we talk about Locust as an example, you've got on the screen, I think it's my favorite, Locust.
Locust is so good.
Yeah, it's really flexible and you define the user flows in Python code.
So you write a class that represents a user and then you program in the steps that they would take.
So like, oh, they start on the homepage, then they click on this page, then they click on this page.
And then you can program in like the pauses and the randomness and stuff like that and actually set up different types of personas or different types of users.
I think this is a great way of designing a load test
because you're thinking about what would the user do
rather than like what's the throughput.
So if you set up a locus test where, you know,
they start off at a point in your site,
if your site has a login, how many of your users,
how many of your users would log in?
Because I think it's important to start off.
If this is a new application, it's really hard to know.
So you're going to have to come up with an educated guess or test like a range of parameters.
If this isn't a website that you've had running for a year or two and you've got like a history of traffic, then you can look at it and say, OK, how many people on the homepage are logged in?
Because there's a big difference.
Because when you talked about caching and CDNs and stuff like that, you can cache the rendered template, but you generally wouldn't cache the whole rendered template if they're logged in.
Because at the top it might say, hello, Anthony.
And you wouldn't want to cache that so that when Mike clicks on the website and says, hello, Anthony, who's that?
That would be very disturbing, wouldn't it?
So there's a balance between, you know, caching and serving up dynamic content.
And then also if you're presenting, you know, lists of products or someone's got shopping cart or something like that, obviously that's unique to them.
So you're kind of trying to simulate this as best as possible.
Otherwise, you just create these really optimistic load tests where you're like, oh, we tested the homepage and it can handle 50,000 users.
But in practice, if a thousand of those log in, then the whole thing falls apart because all of a sudden you're not using the cached version of the homepage.
Right. You know, another example that you brought up is let's just take talk Python, right?
It's got coming up on 500 episodes.
If you test and suppose I put really aggressive caching like on the database results that come back from a single episode for the page and then just render that out of memory, basically, at least just out of the objects that are in memory.
if you do your test to just hit the one like let's just randomly pick episode 300 hit that
one a bunch of times but in reality people are hitting all four or five hundred and
it's not all cached the same or maybe there's so much memory that each one has to hold that it like
putting all 500 in memory in the cache like runs it out of ram on the server all sorts of
stuff that happens as you get this kind of dynamic mix right
yeah so you you want to introduce randomness um so for example on the login if you've got a login
flow or if you're clicking on a particular product um then try not to hard code you know which one it
is if you've got caching um you might not even see the caching either like databases do a lot
of caching so like if you're always pulling the same thing from the database the database service
going to cache that um so you you know it's going to be a lot faster so if you can randomize the um
uh like the inputs or the pages that you click on or the flows that people take then that's great
um locust actually has like an extra when you define a task which is a decorator on a function
you can have like how often this happens um so you can have some tasks which happen
more sort of frequently than others.
So you can say, okay, you know,
five times more people go to the homepage
and then, you know, every so often somebody does a search.
But then when you do the search,
when you want to load test the search,
you know, you want to randomize that a bit more
than just always searching for the same thing.
Right, right, right, right.
Yeah, and just so for people who haven't seen Locus,
you create a class, you give it a couple of functions,
And then, for example, to test the homepage, you just literally put the task decorator on the function.
You say self.client.get slash self.client.get, maybe some additional assets or not.
And then you can even hard code into the class what the domain is or local host or support or whatever.
And that's it.
And you can assign a weight to these tasks like homepage five times more likely than about.
So just put task of five instead of task by itself, right?
It's incredible.
Yeah, it's really, really helpful. And then there's a library. There's a couple of things you need to keep in mind as well. Like if the user logs in, then it probably creates some sort of session, whether that's like a cookie or a token or something like that.
So you need to store that somewhere in the class so that subsequent requests use the same login session.
And then also, you know, frameworks like Django and Flask have got cross-site request forgery protection.
So they generate these CSRF tokens in the forms as well.
So there's normally like a bit involved in getting the cookie or the session ID, getting the CSRF value.
And then like, say if you're submitting forms or you're like doing a search or something, you need to code a bit in Locust to work around the security controls.
Right. For example, you might do a request to the page that has the form and then pull back the CRF token from a cookie and then use that as part of the form submission data. Otherwise, it might just say invalid.
You know, another one that would be really tricky would be like turnstile or reCAPTCHA. You're probably basically not doing that.
Yeah, you're stuck there. You've got to fill in those ones.
Just maybe turn it off real quick for your test
and then turn it back on.
I don't know.
I mean, you could do it, turn it off in development
or something like that, right?
- Yeah.
- So when I look at this, this locus stuff,
I see behind the scenes, something like requests or HTTPX,
where all it does is pull back the string of the HTML,
or maybe even it just gets the head
and actually throws away the content.
I bet it streams it back.
But what I don't imagine it does is it doesn't parse the HTML,
realize that it's a view front end, execute the JavaScript that then has
three API calls to more stuff on the back on the server, right?
If it's a rich front end app, it probably doesn't treat it the same
if we write it just like this, right?
Yeah.
So the other one I'm wanting to highlight is it's an extension to Locust.
So you can connect it with Playwright.
It does HTML parsing.
That's more like looking at the HTML to see if like a particular,
you know, like a beautiful soup or responses was the framework for this.
Right.
Make sure timeout does not appear in the text or something like that.
Yeah.
Make sure the page doesn't have error in big letters.
So like that's one thing you can do is checking that the content of the page
actually contains the right thing. And then Playwright is a UI, like a web testing tool.
Playwright works really well with pytest. So I recommend using Playwright anyway, if you're
running a web application, because you can write pytest tests in Playwright. Even better is if you
want to get started with Playwright, it has a code generator. So when you pip install it, you can run
it in the code gen mode. It pops up a browser, and then you just go on your website and just click
around, and then do what you would do normally, type in, you know, fill in the forms, click on the
buttons. And then whilst you're doing that, in another tab, it actually generates all the Python
code for the pytests. So it basically generates the pytest test code in a separate window,
automatically as you're clicking around in the browser.
So like in terms of writing UI tests is quite difficult
'cause often you have to be like, okay,
how do I find the button?
How do I click on the right button?
How do I find the form?
Especially with JavaScript, 'cause it's not,
you know, often things don't have a specific idea
or you've got to figure out what selectors to use
and stuff like that.
So this makes it a lot easier because you can use the code gen.
So that's a browser test.
So with a low test normally in Locust,
just making http requests but you're not actually rendering the page or running the ajax
or the javascript code whereas with playwright and when you run playwright it's actually spinning up
a browser and then driving the browser from python um so you can plug locust and playwright together
and there's a playwright extension for locust so you can say okay each each load test user
I actually want that to be a browser.
And so when you say I want to test 100 concurrent users, it actually spins up 100 browsers.
Well, Playwright is actually really interesting how it works, but there's a headless mode for
browsers these days.
So it doesn't actually run 100 windows.
You can't see them.
I can't use my computer while this is running.
it's just overwhelmed vibe but yeah i don't recommend running 10 000 concurrent um on a
single laptop because it's gonna it's gonna run pretty slowly it's gonna have a bad time yeah
but that is really important to actually so that will test it all the stuff that we've been talking
about it'll test if there's polling it'll test that if it'll pull if the css is not delivered
over a cdn it's gonna go get that potentially white noise or wherever it's coming from
right it's gonna do all the things yeah yeah um yeah the challenge with it is that you know like
you mentioned running a browser even if it's just a tab uses a lot of resources whereas making a
http request using a request or something you know it doesn't really need anything so you can quite
happily in locus you know um make a hundred thousand requests and your local machine that you're testing
on will be will be fine um so yeah you can um actually get low testing as a service um and the
reason you'd probably want to use that is if you're testing a scenario where your local dev environment
or your test environment just isn't big enough or you need to distribute it um then you need more
horsepower basically to to go and run all the requests especially for something like um play
right you know where you where you need a lot of resources for the browser yeah yeah the little
uh screenshot they have for locus says 21 400 users are currently accessing the website it's like
that's a lot of browser instances the browser that's a lot of browser instances yeah yeah that's
the that looks like an api test which would be a lot easier to do um yeah yeah apis are easy
Yeah, so we, there's a service called Azure Low Testing.
There is other options as well.
I'm sure AWS has one and Google probably has one as well.
Azure Low Testing, I know.
And we are launching a locus support for that.
At the moment, it supports J-meter tests.
But yeah, we're going to be launching locus support for that.
I think by the time this episode comes out, it will probably be in public preview.
So I've been using that and testing that.
And the reason you would use it is, like I said,
if you can run the Locust test locally on your machine
and it runs great and brilliant,
but you can ask us to spin up 50, 100,
or even more instances running in parallel.
And so if you want to do a really large-scale test,
then you can just basically get that
from a cloud service provider like Azure.
Yeah, yeah, awesome.
I didn't realize you guys were bringing that online.
That's cool.
Yeah, nobody knows about it.
Can you do distributed?
I think you can do some distributed stuff
with a locus even, can't you?
Just, yeah.
Yeah, you can.
But you don't have your own infrastructure, right?
Yeah, and a lot of it uses SSH
and you've got to like,
basically it kind of works over the shell.
Yeah.
So yeah, we've kind of got our own distribution
and like coordination system and stuff like that.
And then also when you're running the test,
you know, your output, I guess,
is what is the response time of the pages?
And like, what does that look like?
And I think what confuses a lot of people
is the first time they use Locust or JMeeter
or one of the other tools,
they get all these percentiles back
and they're like, oh, the 90th percentile response time
this and the 95th is this and the 99th is that and they're like uh okay well if i go back to my
high school math i think i can remember what percentiles are but um like which one matters
because normally there's a massive difference between the 90th and the 99th percentiles with
low testing um and you know you might see oh well the 99th is like 10 seconds um but the 90th is like
300 milliseconds so you know was that a good output or a bad output i'm not really sure how
to interpret the results um so yeah you'll see in the UI for locus it gives you percentiles um all
the other load testing tools are very similar it's basically like a distribution of the response
times for those particular pages um and what you're trying to understand is like what is the
expected response time um so you know if it's a bell curve then what's the what's the center point
of that um because the 99th is interesting but often like it's because the cash was warming up
or um you know there was like one one user that took 10 seconds the cash expired and then it got
recreated right then or something yeah yeah exactly so for 99th percentile you know if it's
10 seconds you might have one user that took 10 seconds and 99 users that took
you know a couple of hundred milliseconds so it's you know do you want to
pro you know factor for that one user or do you want to focus on the other uh on the bulk of the
group yeah and if you're like my daughter you'll just say that the internet's broken
yeah it could be but or it could be that youtube is slow for some odd reason for you for a minute
like it's not necessarily the entire internet that is the fault here yeah well most users i think if
it took 10 seconds to respond with just click clicking the refresh button yeah exactly so just
generate more load um yeah you might have to program that into your load test if it takes longer than
five seconds then issue another three requests yeah that's a really good point actually let's see are
Are there any pictures of the reports here?
Let's see.
There we go, maybe.
Yeah.
- Yeah, you got these nice graphs
that shows you response times.
Yeah.
- They're not just graphs, they're live graphs.
You can kind of see it like flowing as it's testing, right?
As it's ramping up or whatever.
- Yeah, definitely.
So what we do with the load testing services is we've got that graph.
But then you can also say, I also want to see how many queries a second were happening on the database.
What was the memory usage of the web applications?
Like how many, like what was the pod size if you're using Kubernetes, like stuff like that.
I've got a couple of demos where I've got like parameter based load testing.
where when you're setting up a Kubernetes environment,
you're like, oh, I'm not sure how much memory
I should allocate the containers
or like how many of them I should have in a pod.
So you can basically just use something
like GitHub Actions to give a matrix and say,
okay, I want to test these configurations.
Let's see what happens with half a gig of RAM
per container or two gigs of RAM per container.
Let's do two, four, eight in a cluster.
And it will run the same load tests
for every configuration.
And then you can just compare all the graphs and say, okay, we don't want to over allocate infrastructure because, you know, people often go a bit nuts.
They're like, oh, how many instances in a cluster do we need on the front end?
And they allocate like 16.
But then when it's actually running, you know, 15 of them are idle.
So it's kind of just over provisioning.
So load testing can be a great way of not just like planning for spikes in traffic or being able to like cater for it.
But actually the other way around, which is you run a load test and you realize you could probably actually do with less infrastructure.
So like things like memory as well, like memory is expensive when you're buying it from a service provider.
And, you know, CPUs and stuff like that or the number of instances.
And actually, let's see what happens if we turn some of those things down.
Will that impact the response times?
Can we get away with it basically?
because in a lot of cases you can actually spend a lot less money and get the same performance or
even just a negligible difference or maybe it you identify somewhere where you could add some level
of caching yeah then all of a sudden you get you can preview get 10x the load per worker
process you know we could we could have a smaller machine or smaller cluster or whatever yeah exactly
So one thing I would like maybe to talk to the folks about is just how do you interpret these graphs?
So you have like a request per second, and then you talked about, say, the 95th percentile response time and this ramping up.
And usually when you look at these graphs, it's really obvious like, yeah, we can add more users, but here is where we start to suffer consequences if we add any more users than this.
doesn't always just completely fall over it just he was worse yeah so the it's it's kind of a bit
like a feedback system um for anyone who's who studies um when you configure a ramp in locust
you're saying okay how many users per second do we want to add um and you start off with a slow
ramp is my suggestion. So like, you know, every 10 seconds, add one user would like be really slow
way of doing it. And then what you're looking at is the response times for each page.
Or you can get an average of everything. So if you're starting off with a load test that just
tests one page, you slowly ramp up the users, then you're looking at the response time graph.
Often when you run a low test where it starts, the response times spike up at the beginning because, you know, the service was probably asleep.
The database server was probably asleep.
You know, it needs to like kick a few things into action to get it responding.
So you often see like a spike at the beginning.
That's fine. Don't worry about that.
If as long as it's a short spike and it doesn't go on for hours.
But we know once everything's warmed up, then you should see a stable graph.
So the response times should stick around the same level, even as you add more and more users to a point.
So it's basically looking at the two graphs, which is the response time and the number of users,
and trying to understand how many users does it need to get to before that response timeline starts going up.
And you basically know that's where you've introduced some sort of bottleneck.
Right. Something to reach that limit, yeah.
That's where someone, you know, people are all of a sudden sitting in a queue somewhere.
The hard part is actually figuring out where that queue is.
If you don't have the time, but you've got the money, you can just throw more infrastructure at it.
But often you can fix some of those cues by looking at what are we caching and where.
Right.
Look at the CPU usage of the various aspects.
What's the database CPU load?
What's the web process?
If the web bit is kind of chill, but the database is at 100%, maybe you need better indexes or something.
Yeah, because often you look at the infrastructure in the back end.
And then even though the response times are going up,
so there's a bottleneck, the CPU is maybe still at 60%.
And the memory might only be still be at 50%.
So you're like, okay, you know,
more CPUs isn't necessarily the issue,
but things are getting stuck somewhere.
And that might be that, you know, each page,
actually I remember one low test I did
where each, it was a PHP application
using like some framework.
And the performance like was horrible
and we couldn't figure out why.
And we put on some debugging tools
and realized that every single page ran 200 SQL queries.
I guess it's the way they'd written it.
It was like, oh, that'd be why.
'Cause you're looking at the CPU and memory
of the actual web servers and they're fine.
Like the web servers are just like,
basically just sitting there continually waiting
the database server to respond um so you know you look at the resource usage and you might be
thinking well why is it getting slower um but often it's because you're making calls to the database
or a back-end api or something and it's just sitting there idle waiting for the responses so
you know um i know you mentioned the show a few times but like the n n plus one uh issues and
stuff like that for for orms in particular is where you get those types of scale where you're
you should not be seeing that many sql queries um it's so easy to do because you write the same code
get the things and then loop over some and interact with some aspect of them and if you don't
eagerly do the query at the first part each one of those is a separate query the more you get back
the worse it is yeah exactly uh and i mentioned like an ai app like with this llm rag app that
we did a low test on with like 10 users um and like the cpu and memory were fine on the front
end because it's not really doing anything it's just calling the llm um but it hit like a token
uh limit like really really quickly and because we were capturing that and tracing it then we could
see like that's what the bottleneck was um that it was getting rate limited on the on the back end
Yeah. So I think one of the challenges that people can run into, this is really important,
is testing with way less data than you're going to have in production.
I've got 10 entries in the database because that's what I bothered to type in while I was
playing with the app, but I've got a million in production. Stuff like that, right? I've got three
products and there's a million in production yeah so that's a good mic now go ahead you
so you actually had some really interesting tools that you recommended to deal with that
yeah i i'd seen this a few times where um people have done load testing and they're like oh on the
all users page or on the list products page like it runs super fast um because they've deployed
the dev environment and it's got like no products in the database um it doesn't matter if you have
indexes because there's only three things just return them all yeah or it's good yeah and you
don't see things at the end plus one because you know there's only like a couple of products um if
any at all um so you often want to seed the application with as much fake data as possible
And the library that I absolutely love for this is called Mimesis, which is a fake data generator, kind of similar to Faker, but it's got a lot more support for like different languages and environments and stuff like that.
So if you wanted to say, okay, let's create, you know, 100,000 users and you need to generate names and addresses and locations and stuff like that, you can do that using Mimesis really easily.
And also, if you want to do like test like different cultures or locales.
So, you know, not just testing like English names, but testing all sorts of different countries and stuff like that or different phone numbers.
Then, yeah, you can use Mimesis to do that.
Yeah, it's got all kinds of different things.
You get credit cards and phone numbers.
Yeah, you can say I need 100,000 Brazilian phone numbers
and it will just give you them in exactly the right format.
Yeah, so then you save those to your database once
and then you can run your tests and see if you have your plus one problem
or your indexes don't fit into memory or whatever the problem might be, right?
Yeah, so for Django or for SQLAlchemy,
you can do the like these load and dump commands.
So what I kind of recommend is to keep it fast
is to use Mimesis to generate a seed data file,
even if that's like JSON or something,
and then just do like a bulk load in the test environment
and then you can reset it every time.
So you can basically just do a rollback
and then just reset and do a bulk load.
If using like a document database,
And they've got similar tools for that.
So if you're using Mongo, then you could just do a bulk load from like a test command, basically.
Right.
Just load it up with some fake data, do a Mongo dump.
And then whenever you're ready to reset it, just do a Mongo restore, --drop, and it'll be.
Yeah, exactly.
Yes.
Yep.
And you can reuse those for your integration tests as well.
You know, if you're writing, if you've got integration tests with Django or Flask, then often you need a database fixture.
and you want to seed that with some information,
then you can just reuse the same data.
Yeah.
You could also do transactions, right?
Like put a transaction that's always rolled back.
So once you load it up, you're not breaking it.
But that's tricky if the code itself calls commit, I suppose.
Yeah.
No, it changed it.
Darn it.
Yeah, there was a question in the chat.
How does load testing change when you have non-deterministic processes,
EG LLM queries, which is a really good question.
And I think it's kind of related to this where you've got a,
you want to introduce like an element of randomness,
but we talked about like a, you know, a user search page,
or if you've got like a chat feature or something,
then you want to kind of vary the question,
especially if you've got any kind of caching.
So that is tricky though, because at the moment,
like the LLM calls, depending on which model you're using
and how it's set up and stuff like that,
but they can take, you know, a second up to 10 seconds
to get a response.
So, you know, you need to kind of factor that in.
It's like, how is your app,
how does your app handle sitting and waiting for 10 seconds
before it gets a response back?
And often you'll find that you'll max out
the number of like threads you've got,
all the number of workers.
in like Gunicorn or Uricorn or something like that
because they're all just sitting there waiting.
That's a place where async and await would be pretty awesome.
Yeah.
Right, because you can sort of let the thread go
and just you'll get back to it.
Also, maybe you just need a different architecture.
Maybe it's not just more caching or more hardware.
It's like, so we're going to put the,
there's a pending request in the database
and we're going to push that off to somewhere
and then we'll just set up like some kind of javascript thing to check if it's done and then
pull down the answer or you know something that's not necessarily blocking potentially yeah i think
in a way it's great for like you mentioned great for that actually there was an announcement
pretty recently that you can run uh uvacorn now like as a production yeah directly yeah without
yeah without being wrapped through um uh g unicorn yeah yeah that's awesome so yeah for this kind of
just talked about where you're waiting on backend calls and stuff like that.
Use the async version of those libraries.
Like if it's OpenAI, there's an async version of the open, OpenAI SDK.
Use that.
And then at least like Yuvicon is going to just have, it will quite
happily run like hundreds and hundreds of those requests that are just waiting
on backend calls.
Yeah, absolutely.
So one thing I want to throw in here, this is coming from me, not from, from you,
but I want to get your thoughts on it.
So I recently set up this thing called Uptime Kuma.
Are you familiar with Uptime Kuma?
No.
So this is an open source, self-hosted uptime monitoring tool.
And you just run it in Docker, off it goes.
And one of the things that's nice about this is, well, I, over on Talk Python,
now if you go to the bottom, it's got a server status.
And you can come in here, you can see the website's behaving well,
RSS feed is behaving well the courses size but also the mobile API all these things but the reason I think this is
I mean status like is it working on is not really that relevant that's like operational thing
but what's cool about it is if you go and dig into the thing you go to the dashboard like let's say
it'll even you could even group them right so like
yeah let's do this I'll do the API so for like the mobile apps API or
the mobile app for talk python courses you can actually see over time what it's seen in response
time for like days so and with your load tests you're saying let me just hammer it and see how
it's how long how it responds to that right and if you point something like this or there's many
other tools like this but this is a nice one you can just say just keep a record and let me go back
and look for you know um for 24 hours how is the load looked you can see there's some weird
spike there probably did like a deployment like right around then or something but in general you
know 40 50 milliseconds 35 81 right it's it's handling it because if yeah the thing was
overwhelmed then these tests would also suffer the latency that everyone else is suffering you know
and this is like every 30 seconds yeah that's really cool um i do want to give a shout out to
open telemetry um i hope more people this every year more more people find out about this and
they're like oh this solves a lot of my problems um it's a it's a cncf project um it's a big open
source standard it's it basically is a standard for instrumentation um uh like an observability so
it's you you kind of plug these instrumentation libraries into your app and there's ones for
fast fast api django flask um like the back ends like mongo um like sql alchemy stuff like that
and you basically just can install these pip packages and it will just start to capture all
this information about oh there's a request and it had these parameters and it took this long
um and so in python like with a very small amount of code and a few pip packages you can instrument
all this stuff in your application um and then the other thing that open telemetry does is it will
have it it's kind of like a pluggable exporter so wherever you want to send that all that data to
you can kind of pick and choose um like which platform you want to send it to um and there are
some like local ones you can use as well that you showed the this um tool for uptime um there's some
docker containers uh for that so like you just spin up a docker container and it'll just take
all that telemetry data and give it to you in a gui um so you can see like all the traces how long
they took what calls it made on the back end what queries it was running um like open telemetry is
a brilliant way of doing that um yeah and it's not just python like if you've got some components
of your application that are written in other languages like odds are that it is also supported
um so it's kind of like a framework i guess for for capturing data and when you're doing load tests
this is how we do like postmortems to figure out or even just looking at the stats and seeing like
you know where did things go slow uh and i've got some videos and stuff of um demos i've done with
this where i've got like applications i've done a load test on them and then i can see oh there
Which calls was it?
What was the resources, the memory usage?
And often, was it the database or was it an API call?
And why did it take so long?
What were the special parameters?
- Right.
- What were we waiting on?
Was it the actual web app or was it database?
But you can retroactively know that, right?
- Yeah, and open telemetry is a great way of doing that.
- Yeah, that's super cool.
That's way more holistic than my just
give me a graph of response time.
- Yeah, that's still cool.
It's so cool.
You know, 20 minutes to set it up in the Docker cluster.
Yeah.
Awesome.
Well, let's talk about, I know we're basically out of time, Anthony.
Let's just talk really quickly about one thing that I think is a little bit tricky,
and maybe just to get your thoughts on, you know, my Vercel example of cost is sort of in this space,
and that's serverless.
What are your thoughts on serverless?
Like, you have way more control when you have a VM.
or you've got a Kubernetes cluster
or whatever it is you're working with, right?
Yeah, it's kind of a bit, yeah.
I don't know.
I always kind of see serverless.
It's a really cool idea,
but it's more of a commercial concept
than a technical one.
Yeah, I'm thinking more about just the,
you don't control the warmup.
You don't control the machine.
You know, there's just a lot of stuff
that's black box to you, you know?
I think most of the platforms and most of the providers have got a,
like a range of options.
Like I speak to Azure Functions,
which is like our serverless Python engine.
You know, you can use that as like just pay per request.
But, you know,
it then has certain optimizations so that it has like a warm startup time.
So, you know, if it's, you know, if you haven't made any requests for, you know, a certain number of hours, then the application will fall asleep.
So it's not using resources and we're not charging you money.
But if you don't want to have that, if you want the startup time to be super fast, then you can, you know, use a different service level, basically, and have like faster startups.
You can have like pre-allocated resources, which then becomes not serverless, but it's the same framework.
It's the same architecture.
and Lambda is the same AWS Lambda is the same you can kind of set it up in those uh different
options um things kind of get tricky when you get into Kubernetes because um you've got real
infrastructure on the background um and you know when you look at Kubernetes clusters
or Kubernetes as a service or however you're setting it up the first question is like how
many VMs do I need to provision and how big do they need to be um so yes you're kind of
building and like a serverless abstraction on top of it but you've got real infrastructure in the
background um and that's actually really hard because in in a lot of cases you've just got
tons of idle infrastructure um so i think low testing is a good way of looking at like trying
to right size what you've got provisioned um and in many cases scaling down some pits and scaling up
others. Yeah, absolutely. I don't mess with Kubernetes. It's too much for me. I don't need
all that. I don't need all that stuff. I do use Docker though, which is really, really nice.
And I know a lot of these tools we talked about support running the Docker or working with Docker
and so on. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Well, hopefully people have some really concrete ideas and tools
that they can use like locust.io, which we're both huge fans of playwright, same deal, but
also some of the philosophy and ideas behind it, which is super important too.
So much appreciated you coming on the show to share that and just the chance to catch
up.
How about you give us a quick wrap up important takeaways for people who want to go out and
test their stuff now?
Yeah.
So I think step one is to look at your application and understand what your users are likely
to do.
So if you want to design a low test, start simple.
Maybe even start with Playwright because you can just spin up the browser recorder,
click around in the website and simulate what a user would be doing.
Stitch that together with Locust and test 10 users.
Don't go nuts.
Start off with a small number, a simple test, and you will uncover things that need optimizing.
I don't think I've ever encountered an application that just ran really efficiently the first time.
And then just keep working on that.
So, yeah, because often you end up trying to optimize things that are not going to get touched
or don't really make a difference when you actually test it.
So, yeah, start simple.
I recommend using Locust and Playwright if you want, or you can just write a simple Locust test.
And then put the instrumentation in the back end.
so that you can see not just the response times,
but you can see as much data as possible
on what's happening and how long it's taking.
And I'll share like a couple of links
of some simple dashboards you can use with OpenTelemetry,
but it will capture that data locally or in the cloud
and show you a trace of every request.
Yeah, awesome.
And do that with real data.
Don't do it with three entries.
Yeah.
It's not going to mean what you think it means if you do it with only three entries.
Awesome.
All right.
Well, always great to have you on the show.
Thanks for being here, Anthony.
Catch you later.
Yes.
Great to be back.
Thanks.
Yeah.
Bye.